Systems thinking

Systems thinking
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


Impression of systems thinking about society[1]
Systems thinking is the process of understanding how things, regarded as systems, influence one another within a whole. In nature, systems thinking examples include ecosystems in which various elements such as air, water, movement, plants, and animals work together to survive or perish. In organizations, systems consist of people, structures, and processes that work together to make an organization "healthy" or "unhealthy".
Systems thinking has been defined as an approach to problem solving, by viewing "problems" as parts of an overall system, rather than reacting to specific part, outcomes or events and potentially contributing to further development of unintended consequences. Systems thinking is not one thing but a set of habits or practices[2] within a framework that is based on the belief that the component parts of a system can best be understood in the context of relationships with each other and with other systems, rather than in isolation. Systems thinking focuses on cyclical rather than linear cause and effect.
In science systems, it is argued that the only way to fully understand why a problem or element occurs and persists is to understand the parts in relation to the whole.[3] Standing in contrast to Descartes's scientific reductionism and philosophical analysis, it proposes to view systems in a holistic manner. Consistent with systems philosophy, systems thinking concerns an understanding of a system by examining the linkages and interactions between the elements that compose the entirety of the system.
Science systems thinking attempts to illustrate that events are separated by distance and time and that small catalytic events can cause large changes in complex systems. Acknowledging that an improvement in one area of a system can adversely affect another area of the system, it promotes organizational communication at all levels in order to avoid the silo effect. Systems thinking techniques may be used to study any kind of system — natural, scientific, engineered, human, or conceptual.
Contents  [hide] 
1 The concept of a system
2 The systems approach
3 Applications
4 See also
5 Bibliography
6 References
7 External links
[edit]The concept of a system

The several ways to think of and define a system include:.
A system is composed of parts.
All the parts of a system must be related (directly or indirectly), else there are really two or more distinct systems
A system is encapsulated, has a boundary.
The boundary of a system is a decision made by an observer, or a group of observers.
A system can be nested inside another system.
A system can overlap with another system.
A system is bounded in time.
A system is bounded in space, though the parts are not necessarily co-located.
A system receives input from, and sends output into, the wider environment.
A system consists of processes that transform inputs into outputs.
Science systems thinkers consider that:
a system is a dynamic and complex whole, interacting as a structured functional unit;
energy, material and information flow among the different elements that compose the system;
a system is a community situated within an environment;
energy, material and information flow from and to the surrounding environment via semi-permeable membranes or boundaries;
systems are often composed of entities seeking equilibrium but can exhibit oscillating, chaotic, or exponential behavior.
A holistic system is any set (group) of interdependent or temporally interacting parts. Parts are generally systems themselves and are composed of other parts, just as systems are generally parts or holons of other systems.
Science systems and the application of science systems thinking has been grouped into three categories based on the techniques used to tackle a system:
Hard systems — involving simulations, often using computers and the techniques of operations research/management science. Useful for problems that can justifiably be quantified. However it cannot easily take into account unquantifiable variables (opinions, culture, politics, etc.)[citation needed], and may treat people as being passive, rather than having complex motivations.
Soft systems — For systems that cannot easily be quantified, especially those involving people holding multiple and conflicting frames of reference. Useful for understanding motivations, viewpoints, and interactions and addressing qualitative as well as quantitative dimensions of problem situations. Soft systems are a field that utilizes foundation methodological work developed by Peter Checkland, Brian Wilson and their colleagues at Lancaster University. Morphological analysis is a complementary method for structuring and analysing non-quantifiable problem complexes.
Evolutionary systems — Béla H. Bánáthy developed a methodology that is applicable to the design of complex social systems. This technique integrates critical systems inquiry with soft systems methodologies. Evolutionary systems, similar to dynamic systems are understood as open, complex systems, but with the capacity to evolve over time. Bánáthy uniquely integrated the interdisciplinary perspectives of systems research (including chaos, complexity, cybernetics), cultural anthropology, evolutionary theory, and others.
[edit]The systems approach


This article is in a list format that may be better presented using prose. You can help by converting this article to prose, if appropriate. Editing help is available. (February 2012)
The systems thinking approach incorporates several tenets:[4]
Interdependence of objects and their attributes - independent elements can never constitute a system
Holism - emergent properties not possible to detect by analysis should be possible to define by a holistic approach
Goal seeking - systemic interaction must result in some goal or final state
Inputs and Outputs - in a closed system inputs are determined once and constant; in an open system additional inputs are admitted from the environment
Transformation of inputs into outputs - this is the process by which the goals are obtained
Entropy - the amount of disorder or randomness present in any system
Regulation - a method of feedback is necessary for the system to operate predictably
Hierarchy - complex wholes are made up of smaller subsystems
Differentiation - specialized units perform specialized functions
Equifinality - alternative ways of attaining the same objectives (convergence)
Multifinality - attaining alternative objectives from the same inputs (divergence)
A treatise on systems thinking ought to address many issues including:
Encapsulation of a system in space and/or in time
Active and passive systems (or structures)
Transformation by an activity system of inputs into outputs
Persistent and transient systems
Evolution, the effects of time passing, the life histories of systems and their parts.
Design and designers.
Some examples:
Rather than trying to improve the braking system on a car by looking in great detail at the material composition of the brake pads (reductionist), the boundary of the braking system may be extended to include the interactions between the:
brake disks or drums
brake pedal sensors
hydraulics
driver reaction time
tires
road conditions
weather conditions
time of day
Using the tenet of "Multifinality", a supermarket could be considered to be:
a "profit making system" from the perspective of management and owners
a "distribution system" from the perspective of the suppliers
an "employment system" from the perspective of employees
a "materials supply system" from the perspective of customers
an "entertainment system" from the perspective of loiterers
a "social system" from the perspective of local residents
a "dating system" from the perspective of single customers
As a result of such thinking, new insights may be gained into how the supermarket works, why it has problems, how it can be improved or how changes made to one component of the system may impact the other components.
[edit]Applications

Science systems thinking is increasingly being used to tackle a wide variety of subjects in fields such as computing, engineering, epidemiology, information science, health, manufacture, management, sustainable development and the environment. Professor Rajagopal, EGADE Business School building on the work of Ferdinand Tönnies has suggested the application of systems thinking in developing marketing strategy from the perspectives of corporate business restructuring in the post economic recession situations[1].
Some examples:
Urban planning
Science of Team Science
Organizational architecture
Job design
Team Population and Work Unit Design
Linear and Complex Process Design
Supply Chain Design
System Design
Business continuity planning with FMEA protocol
Critical Infrastructure Protection via FBI Infragard
Delphi method — developed by RAND for USAF
Futures studies — Thought leadership mentoring
The public sector including examples at The Systems Thinking Review [2]
Leadership development
Oceanography — forecasting complex systems behavior
Permaculture
Quality function deployment (QFD)
Quality management — Hoshin planning methods
Quality storyboard — StoryTech framework (LeapfrogU-EE)
Software quality
Program management
Project management
MECE
The Vanguard Method
Sociocracy
Linear thinking
Gemeinschaft and Gesellschaft
[edit]See also

Boundary critique
Crossdisciplinarity
System Design
Holistic management
Information Flow Diagram
Interdisciplinary
Multidisciplinary
Negative feedback
Soft systems methodology
Synergetics (Fuller)
System dynamics
	Systems science portal
	Thinking portal
Systematics - study of multi-term systems
Systemics
Systems engineering
Systems intelligence
Systems philosophy
Systems theory
Systems science
Systemography
Transdisciplinary
Terms used in systems theory
Viable Systems Approach
