Test automation
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
  (Redirected from Automation testing)
Compare with Manual testing.
In software testing, test automation is the use of special software (separate from the software being tested) to control the execution of tests, the comparison of actual outcomes to predicted outcomes, the setting up of test preconditions, and other test control and test reporting functions.[1] Commonly, test automation involves automating a manual process already in place that uses a formalized testing process.
Contents  [hide] 
1 Overview
2 Code-driven testing
3 Graphical User Interface (GUI) testing
4 What to test
5 Framework approach in automation
6 Defining boundaries between automation framework and a testing tool
7 Notable test automation tools
8 See also
9 References
10 External links
[edit]Overview

Although manual tests may find many defects in a software application, it is a laborious and time consuming process. In addition, it may not be effective in finding certain classes of defects. Test automation is the process of writing a computer program to do testing that would otherwise need to be done manually. Once tests have been automated, they can be run quickly and repeatedly. This is often the most cost effective method for software products that have a long maintenance life, because even minor patches over the lifetime of the application can cause features to break which were working at an earlier point in time.
There are two general approaches to test automation:
Code-driven testing. The public (usually) interfaces to classes, modules or libraries are tested with a variety of input arguments to validate that the results that are returned are correct.
Graphical user interface testing. A testing framework generates user interface events such as keystrokes and mouse clicks, and observes the changes that result in the user interface, to validate that the observable behavior of the program is correct.
Test automation tools can be expensive, and are usually employed in combination with manual testing. Test automation can be made cost-effective in the long term, especially when used repeatedly in regression testing.[citation needed]
In automated testing the Test Engineer or Software quality assurance person must have software coding ability, since the test cases are written in the form of source code which, when run, produce output according to the assertions that are a part of it.
One way to generate test cases automatically is model-based testing through use of a model of the system for test case generation, but research continues into a variety of alternative methodologies for doing so.[citation needed] In some cases, the model-based approach enables non-technical users to create automated business test cases in plain English so that no programming of any kind is needed in order to configure them for multiple operating systems, browsers, and smart devices.[2]
What to automate, when to automate, or even whether one really needs automation are crucial decisions which the testing (or development) team must make. Selecting the correct features of the product for automation largely determines the success of the automation. Automating unstable features or features that are undergoing changes should be avoided.[3]
[edit]Code-driven testing

A growing trend in software development is the use of testing frameworks such as the xUnit frameworks (for example, JUnit and NUnit) that allow the execution of unit tests to determine whether various sections of the code are acting as expected under various circumstances. Test cases describe tests that need to be run on the program to verify that the program runs as expected.
Code driven test automation is a key feature of agile software development, where it is known as test-driven development (TDD). Unit tests are written to define the functionality before the code is written. Only when all tests pass is the code considered complete. Proponents argue that it produces software that is both more reliable and less costly than code that is tested by manual exploration.[citation needed] It is considered more reliable because the code coverage is better, and because it is run constantly during development rather than once at the end of a waterfall development cycle. The developer discovers defects immediately upon making a change, when it is least expensive to fix. Finally, code refactoring is safer; transforming the code into a simpler form with less code duplication, but equivalent behavior, is much less likely to introduce new defects.
[edit]Graphical User Interface (GUI) testing

Many test automation tools provide record and playback features that allow users to interactively record user actions and replay them back any number of times, comparing actual results to those expected. The advantage of this approach is that it requires little or no software development. This approach can be applied to any application that has a graphical user interface. However, reliance on these features poses major reliability and maintainability problems. Relabelling a button or moving it to another part of the window may require the test to be re-recorded. Record and playback also often adds irrelevant activities or incorrectly records some activities.
A variation on this type of tool is for testing of web sites. Here, the "interface" is the web page. This type of tool also requires little or no software development.[citation needed] However, such a framework utilizes entirely different techniques because it is reading HTML instead of observing window events.[citation needed]
Another variation is scriptless test automation that does not use record and playback, but instead builds a model of the Application Under Test (AUT) and then enables the tester to create test cases by simply editing in test parameters and conditions. This requires no scripting skills, but has all the power and flexibility of a scripted approach.[citation needed] Test-case maintenance seems to be easy, as there is no code to maintain and as the AUT changes the software objects can simply be re-learned or added. It can be applied to any GUI-based software application.[citation needed] The problem is the model of the AUT is actually implemented using test scripts, which have to be constantly maintained whenever there's change to the AUT.[citation needed]
[edit]What to test

Testing tools can help automate tasks such as product installation, test data creation, GUI interaction, problem detection (consider parsing or polling agents equipped with oracles), defect logging, etc., without necessarily automating tests in an end-to-end fashion.
One must keep satisfying popular requirements when thinking of test automation:
Platform and OS independence
Data driven capability (Input Data, Output Data, Metadata)
Customizable Reporting (DB Access, crystal reports)
Easy debugging and logging
Version control friendly – minimal binary files
Extensible & Customizable (Open APIs to be able to integrate with other tools)
Common Driver (For example, in the Java development ecosystem, that means Ant or Maven and the popular IDEs). This enables tests to integrate with the developers' workflows.
Support unattended test runs for integration with build processes and batch runs. Continuous integration servers require this.
Email Notifications (automated notification on failure or threshold levels). This may be the test runner or tooling[clarification needed] that executes it.
Support distributed execution environment (distributed test bed)
Distributed application support (distributed SUT)
[edit]Framework approach in automation

A framework is an integrated system that sets the rules of automation of a specific product. This system integrates the function libraries, test data sources, object details and various reusable modules. These components act as small building blocks which need to be assembled to represent a business process. The framework provides the basis of test automation and simplifies the automation effort.
[edit]Defining boundaries between automation framework and a testing tool

Tools are specifically designed to target some particular test environment, such as Windows and web automation tools, etc. Tools serve as a driving agent for an automation process. However, an automation framework is not a tool to perform a specific task, but rather an infrastructure that provides the solution where different tools can do their job in a unified manner. This provides a common platform for the automation engineer.
There are various types of frameworks. They are categorized on the basis of the automation component they leverage. These are:
Data-driven testing
Modularity-driven testing
Keyword-driven testing
Hybrid testing
Model-based testing
Code driven testing
[edit]Notable test automation tools

Tool name	Produced by	Latest version
Cucumber	Open Source	1.0.2
Fitnesse	Open Source	v20111026
HP QuickTest Professional	HP Software Division	11.0
IBM Rational Functional Tester	IBM Rational	8.3.0
LabVIEW	National Instruments	2011
Maveryx	Maveryx	1.3.1
Oracle Application Testing Suite	Oracle Corporation	12.1
QF-Test	Quality First Software GmbH	3.5M2
Ranorex	Ranorex GmbH	4.0
Rational robot	IBM Rational	2003
Robot Framework	Open Source	2.7.5
Selenium	Open source	2.25.0
SilkTest	Borland	14.0
eggPlant	TestPlant	2012
EiffelStudio AutoTest	Eiffel Software	7.1, Jun 2012
SOAtest	Parasoft	9.2
TestComplete	SmartBear Software	9.1
Testing Anywhere	Automation Anywhere	7.5
TestPartner	Micro Focus	6.3
Time Partition Testing (TPT)	PikeTec GmbH	4.2
TOSCA Testsuite	TRICENTIS Technology & Consulting	7.5.0
Visual Studio Test Professional	Microsoft	2010
Watir	Open Source	3.0
Telerik Test Studio	Telerik, Inc.	2012.2
[edit]See also

	Software Testing portal
List of GUI testing tools
Software testing
System testing
Test automation framework
Unit test
[edit]References


This article includes a list of references, but its sources remain unclear because it has insufficient inline citations. Please help to improve this article by introducing more precise citations. (February 2009)
^ Kolawa, Adam; Huizinga, Dorota (2007). Automated Defect Prevention: Best Practices in Software Management. Wiley-IEEE Computer Society Press. p. 74. ISBN 0-470-04212-5.
^ "Proceedings from the 5th International Conference on Software Testing and Validation (ICST). Software Competence Center Hagenberg. "Test Design: Lessons Learned and Practical Implications.".
^ Brian Marick. "When Should a Test Be Automated?". StickyMinds.com. Retrieved 2009-08-20.
Elfriede Dustin, et al. (1999). Automated Software Testing. Addison Wesley. ISBN ISBN 0-201-43287-0.
Elfriede Dustin, et al.. Implementing Automated Software Testing. Addison Wesley. ISBN ISBN 978-0-321-58051-1.
Mark Fewster & Dorothy Graham (1999). Software Test Automation. ACM Press/Addison-Wesley. ISBN 978-0-201-33140-0.
Roman Savenkov: How to Become a Software Tester. Roman Savenkov Consulting, 2008, ISBN 978-0-615-23372-7
Hong Zhu et al. (2008). AST '08: Proceedings of the 3rd International Workshop on Automation of Software Test. ACM Press. ISBN 978-1-60558-030-2.
Mosley, Daniel J.; Posey, Bruce. Just Enough Software Test Automation. ISBN 0130084689.
[edit]External links

Practical Experience in Automated Testing
Test Automation: Delivering Business Value
Test Automation Snake Oil by James Bach
